                                                         Binary Stars 
                                                By Harmanpreet Kaur and Vaanee 

In our universe, there are millions and millions of stars. Some are just normal massive hot bodies even bigger  than the sun.  However, some of the stars are very unique and one of a kind and something like that rare and unique “combination” of stars in Binary Stars and a total of 40 binary stars are known till date.
As the word ‘binary’ suggests the number two. Therefore, the binary stars system consists of two stars who are orbiting around each other in their common barycenter (centre mass of two or more bodies that orbits around each other).  Among binary stars, one of them is brighter than the other and the brighter one is known as the primary star while the other is called the dimmer star but in some infrequent cases both the stars are equally brighter. 
 Identifying binary stars is possible by using a spectroscopy (which will create a spectrum if two stars are orbiting each other). These stars are visual so they can be observed by our naked eyes during the night time. 
The formation of stars is generally led by clouds of gas and dust. These gas clouds not only form a single star but can form multiple groups of stars. When the gravity contracts the gas and dust into an interstellar cloud, it clumps and collapses and when one of the collapsing regions becomes hot and denser and leads to nuclear fusion then a star is born, this process is known as fragmentation. Likewise, with the process of disk fragmentation when two groups of stars are forming closely together less than 600 astronomical units, when the disks of two stars fragments are forming within the disk, they are gravitationally bound to each other and starts orbiting around each other and thereby, forms up and become the binary stars. 

Binary stars are classified into 7 categories through which one can observe them: -

1.OPTICAL BINARY :- They are not actually double framework ,they simply seem to be by all accounts, like a paired star framework on the grounds- from our stands focuses two stars might be exceptionally near one another and the point between them might be totally minut in the terms of parts of a curve seconds thus, they give off an impression of being parallel star framework. Nonetheless, they are far separated yet they simply seem to look like twofold stars. We call them optical parallels.
2.VISUAL BINARY :- In this framework we really have a parallel star framework and as we are taking photos of them after some time we can see one of the stars moving around the other star so we can consider that to be time passes by days, weeks, months or a long time relies on how far they are separated ,what their masses are and how it requires to need to go ground the other .Based on the name we can take the photos and picture it unmistakably that it is paired star framework.
3.ECLIPSE BINARY :- Some of the time when we take a gander at the stars and notice that the stars on the event on the light of a supper, turns out to be brilliant again darkens turns out to be splendid again and regularly the diminishing isn't equivalent when it happens twice in the circle of the one star around the other .Hence, we have a darkening period then, at that point, when that little star moves behind the other star as opposed to being close to it. At the point when the star is close to it, we got a light of both of the stars when the little star moves behind the huge star then we have a smidgen of darkening since we are presently don't see the light of the more modest star , we call that overshadowing double since one star will obscure the light of the other. 
4. ASTROMETRIC BINARY :- It is the pair where we really distinguish the wobble to move into one star as a result of the presence of another. We will be unable to see the subsequent star however we do see the wobbling of the primary star thus, there should be a parallel star framework since one star seems, by all accounts, to be moving or rotating around something different that we can't see yet it should be there. Subsequently, we consider that an Astrometric parallel.
5. SPECTROSCOPIC BINARY :- It is the sort of double where we could really recognize the light shift blue shift or a red shift in the event that one star is moving around another star. In case they are situated so as to not move before each other yet we can in any case see the spiral shutting and opening speeds, we can gauge those speeds and measure the blue and the red shift of one star as it goes around the other. We call them Spectroscopy doubles.
6. SPECTRUM BINARY :- We can't see blue or red shift yet here we have a range that seems to have the markers of two totally different stars thus we then, at that point, separate those idiom out these lines had a place with one star different lines had a place with another star so we could see that together they seems one star however we understood then as a result of the particular phantom class of Specter type they might be in and we see various lines in the range at various powers and consequently we can break them out and understand that we have two stars there rather than one star and we call that a range double.
7.CONTACT BINARY :-A contact twofold is two stars that are excessively near the point that their surfaces are contacting. In profile, such a framework would look like a nut. As the two stars circle one another, they lose energy, so they in the long run twisting together.

The study of stars is a vast field and like binary stars there are thousands of different types of stars which some of them might not be discovered yet. But stars like binary stars help us to study better about the nature of the universe and its system. 







For more information or queries you can contact us on:- 
Vaanee - patelvaanee1416@gmail.com
Harmanpreet - kaurharmanpreet716@gmail.com
